---
layout: paper
categories: papers
permalink: papers/npssm
id: npssm
title: "Non-Parametric State-Space Models: Identifiability, Estimation and Forecasting"
authors: 
  - Chenghao Liu
  - Weiran Yao
  - Steven Hoi
  - Kun Zhang
venue: OpenReview
venue-shorthand: OpenReview
year: 2023
url: /papers/npssm
pdf: https://openreview.net/pdf?id=RVgssxlEVfl
code: https://openreview.net/attachment?id=RVgssxlEVfl&name=supplementary_material
featured: false
feature-title: NP-SSM
feature-description: Non-Parametric State-Space Models
selected: false
type: conference
figure: /images/papers/23-npssm-openreview.png
bibtex: |-
  
    @misc{
      liu2023nonparametric,
      title={Non-Parametric State-Space Models: Identifiability, Estimation and Forecasting},
      author={Chenghao Liu and Weiran Yao and Steven Hoi and Kun Zhang},
      year={2023},
      url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=RVgssxlEVfl}
    }
---

State-space models (SSMs) provide a standard methodology for time series analysis and prediction. While recent works utilize nonlinear functions to parameterize the transition and emission processes to enhance their expressivity, the form of additive noise still limits their applicability in real-world scenarios. In this work, we propose a general formulation of SSMs with a completely non-parametric transition model and a flexible emission model which can account for sensor distortion. Besides, to deal with more general scenarios (e.g., non-stationary time series), we add a higher level model to capture time-varying characteristics of the process.
Interestingly, we find that even though the proposed model is remarkably flexible, the latent processes are generally identifiable. Given this, we further propose the corresponding estimation procedure and make use of it for the forecasting task. Our model can recover the latent processes and their relations from observed sequential data. Accordingly, the proposed procedure can also be viewed as a method for causal representation learning. We argue that forecasting can benefit from causal representation learning, since the estimated latent variables are generally identifiable. Empirical comparisons on various datasets validate that our model could not only reliably identify the latent processes from the observed data, but also consistently outperform baselines in the forecasting task.
Anonymous Url: I certify that there is no URL (e.g., github page) that could be used to find authors’ identity.